This is Carol and a warm welcome back to the course on Tablo.
Happy to see you here.
Last time we left off after creating our first calculated field which is total sales and you can see
it here on the left.
I just wanted to mention that creating a calculated field is a very important aspect of working with
Tablo because you will often find that the data that you have does not have the right level or it does
not have the right variables for you to work or if it does have the information there but its not in
the right format its not aggregated properly or correctly for your needs or doesn't have the right level
of detail or or other things so you will be inevitably working a lot of calculated fields and this was
a very simple example of a calculated field where we just multiply two values but Tablo has very vast
functionality in this space and allows it to create just insanely helpful calculated fields and we will
be working with them to go forward.
So thats why I kind of put it at the beginning of the course so you get used to it going as we go along.
All right so today we're talking about colors.
Colors are important because as you probably hear me say quite often Dahdah science is not just about
crunching numbers.
It's a form of art.
It's a form of communication.
It's it's a very creative activity or profession.
So get get used to work or colors you will you will need the skill.
OK so let's get straight into it.
How can we color this chart.
Imagine that this picture has to go into a presentation for the executives of the company who will be
distributing these bonuses or maybe even this picture will be
hung up somewhere on a wall so that everybody can see so you don't want it to be plain like this you
want it to be colorful and bright.
So we need to use this color button over here and there are many different ways that we can do it.
First of all where we can do right away is just change the color.
We can change it to red we can change to green we can change to basically any color.
And that's kind of the basic thing that you can do here.
Or you can choose more colors and then you can choose.
You can choose even more colors.
It's all it's all under control here.
What else you can do is you can change the transparency but there's nothing behind it so there's not
much point you can at a border make that border thicker I think or make that change the color of the
border if you want but we won't be doing that right now as well.
What we want.
We want kind of the colors to differ from bar to bar.
So the first thing you can do is you can take your representative and let's say from here and drag them
onto the collar button.
And what that will do is we'll give each representative a unique color and he'll give you a legend over
here.
And so as you can see the color legend matches your column names.
And so Matthew is blue Mathieu's blue here Susan's light blue light blue here as well.
I want to show you a quick tip here as well.
So by the way going forward I'll be showing you quick tips along the way which I will be using just
kind the cars are kind of a habit and I think you should get into the habit of using them too so just
keep track of when when I give out these quick tips because they will be very helpful.
So let's take out the rep and instead of taking a prisoner from here and dragging him onto the collar
what we can do is take a representative from here whole hold him as you know if I just drag him onto
the call now then I'll screw up the visualization because now he's no longer this column or this dimension
is no longer in the columns so I'm going to press controls that now what you need to do is you hold
him or hold this dimension you drag him and you press control.
And as you can see this little plus sign appears Andriy Amal's And then when you let go you basically
copy that dimension onto this new role and it's still in the columns.
So that's an easy way especially when you have like a hundred or hundreds maybe too much like 30 or
four dimensions here might be hard looking for it when you know exactly what you want.
It's already on on your chart.
You just drag it like that with control.
OK.
So we've got the representative here and now if you're not happy with the colors we can just click colors
added colors and choose a different color palette.
So it has a lot of different color palettes that are already built in.
Right now it's using tablet 20 so you can say how about we go for purple gray 12 you click assigned
palette and now it's a sign of purple gray palette that looks pretty cool doesn't it.
Now we can also.
Another good one is colorblind so just to be cautious of people who might be called Blind just click
a sign pad there.
It will tell you that your colors are being duplicated because you have less colors than people but
you know that might be OK for you as long as you want because you do have the names underneath so might
not be a problem anyway.
I don't think this is the best way to color this chart.
Let's have a look another one so I'm going to I'm going to actually leave rep in color for now.
And what we'll do is we'll take some of total sales we'll press control and we'll drag that into color
as you can see.
Representative has been replaced and now some of total sales is dictating the color analysis.
It's not discrete color.
It's a continuous color.
And so the more cells you've had the darker you color the less cells you've had the lighter your color.
Also quite useful but in our case it's not the best because we already see the size of the bar and it
tells us how much cells each person has had.
So maybe maybe a different approach.
My favorite one in this particular case will be if I take region and I drag region onto color by the
way I'll just contrails at that you will see that I can also drag region QUANTRILL it and then replace
this current dimension that's in color or not even dimension.
This is a mirror.
So replace that.
And now you can see that your bars have been colored by region.
And I think personally to me this appeals the most because I can write a way visually see that these
are three distinct regions or are three distinct elements.
And that kind of also backs the idea behind why there's three bonuses and that these people don't have
to be compared to these people and these people don't have to be compared to the rest of them.
And so personally I'll leave it at that.
And that's how you work with colors in Tablo.
We will definitely be talking more about colors along the way in this course.
This is just the basics and how to play around with that see what personally appeals to you the most.
And it's you know it's very individual preference so find find your style and I look forward to talking
to you next time when we'll be discussing labels and formatting making our chart look really appealing
and until next time.
Have you analyzed.